=====WEEK 2=====
ARTICLE: DICKS, “THE EFFECTS OF DIGITAL LITERACY ON THE NATURE OF TECHNICAL COMMUNICATION WORK”

QUESTIONS: 
1. Dicks describes 3 major types of forces that have impacted technical communicators. What are they and how do they affect technical communicators?

2. What is knowledge work? How has technical communication (as a discipline) moved from “blue collar” to knowledge work?

3. What does it mean to do commodity work versus doing symbolic-analytic work? What kind of work do technical communicators do that is considered commodity work? 

4. What are at least three characteristics of symbolic-analytic work? 

5. What is the difference between a symbolic-analytic worker and a “middle man” approach to technical communication? How does technology play a role in this?

6. What are the two fundamental changes to the products that technical communicators document? (hint: page 58-59)

7. What is the support economy and how will it affect technical communicators?

8. What are the four ways to articulate value for technical communicators? Discuss each. Which are easy for you to articulate? Which are difficult?

9. What role do databases and scripting languages play in symbolic-analytic work? How does this work differ from commodity work? How will this save your job from being outsourced? 

10. What is single sourcing? What does Dicks’ say about XML, databases, and programming in regards to single sourcing? 

11. What is agile design? What is a technical communicator’s role in agile design?

12. How does a technology like GitHub enhance agile design, extreme programming, and Scrum?
=====WEEK 1=====
ARTICLE: CARLINER, “COMPUTERS & TECHNICAL COMMUNICATION”

QUESTIONS: 

1. In the early days, what was the difference between a writer and a production assistant?
2. What changed in the mid-1980's that changed the nature of technical communication?
3. When did technical writers become information developers? What happened in the organization to spur on this change in job title?
4. How has production changed from the 70's until now? What implications does this have for you?
5. How has technical communicator's job responsibilities changed from the 70's until now? What implications does this have for you?
6. Why does Carliner talk about the classification (professional vs. para-professional) in regards to technical writers? 
7. In the 21st century, what are the key changes to the production cycle that impacts technical communicators?
8. Currently, what are the "two tracks" of technical communicators that Carliner discusses? 
9. What specific technological changes impacted the way technical communicators work? What do you think is the most important technological change for your career?
10. The changes from phase 4 to phase 5, as described by Carliner, are particularly relevant to you. What do these changes mean to you? How will you adapt to these changes? 
11. When was XML introduced? What advantages did XML bring for technical communicators?
12. What two words does Carliner use to describe phase 5?
13. One of the most alarming statements in Carliner's article reads "However, those who develop and produce content have been facing dwindling opportunities. What does this mean for you?
14. What are the differences between authoring, publishing, and management technologies? What do these differences mean for you?
15. What does Carliner say about academic programs in technical communication? What implications does this have for you?

ARTICLE: ALBERS, "THE FUTURE OF TECHNICAL COMMUNICATION"

QUESTIONS: 

- What is the difference between tools and technology? Give some examples
- Is XML a technology or a tool?
- What is the main distinction between practitioners and academics, according to Albers?
- What is Albers main thesis for the future of technical communicators?